hey this is Pam dinner thank you for
tuning in to b2b marketing and more with
me this is a channel I want to help you
to become a better b2b marketer and I
share my templates know-how and
experience to help you to think
strategically and do your job faster and
quicker and hopefully by doing that you
can get promoted faster for today I want
to continue with this messaging
framework series and I started last week
and the part one was really about a
definition of messaging framework and
the steps that you can take to build one
for today which is the part 2 I want to
share with you a specific template that
you can use that's get started and
diving as you can see on my screen
alright this is what the messaging
framework template looks like it's
actually very simple and the easy is not
difficult you start with a product or
the product family and I'm just gonna
read them out loud to make sure that
we're on the same page okay and then the
second category is target audience
followed by value proposition the next
one is customer challenges and after
that is messaging positioning or
messaging pillars product features user
benefits and the last category is
keywords for content creation that is it
very simple so now let's talk about each
category a little bit more so you can
get a sense in terms of how you can
better fill in the blanks number one
product okay
many people ask me should we put like a
company names at like the first category
well no if you actually think about it
when anybody has any kind of issues or
challenges they are searching for
products they are not searching for a
company name to solve their issue unless
your company is uber or Google right
it's like oldest and those company name
becomes an action verb that's a
different story majority of us our
company names are not action verb when
people
looking to solve their challenges and
issue a looking for products not a
company if I'm thirsty I want to drink
water right I'm not searching like oh I
want to drink Fuji water so that make
sense so focus on product
the next category target audience right
here focus on why just one target
audience you know make it very crisp you
create messaging framework with this
specific target audience if you put two
or three there it create confusion a lot
of time and also create a lot of debates
internally right so who is this
messaging framework for hmm I'm not sure
the customer challenges is related to
the doctor and also nurses at the same
time to avoid any kind of confusion
especially when you try to drive buying
within the internal team one target
audience if all possible the next one is
value propositions for you a specific
product
what is one statement what is
overarching statement that you can
describe to differentiate your product
from your competitors Salesforce is very
easy you know the number one CRM
solution in the world ok there's another
company that was also a CI M solution
but they embedded there our CI m
solution into a Gmail so their
differentiator factor is CRM fit for the
G suite for example that's again you
know what is that overarching statement
that you want to describe your product
the next one is actually customer
challenges can you identify three
distinctive customer challenges that you
want to solve and why the customer
challenges in the first person I need
something I encounter something I have
difficulty about something if you write
it in the first person
oh you internal stakeholders and also
agency content creators they are reading
your document as a first person that
actually create a sense of resonance
with your audience so I always suggest
when you write your cost
my challenges write it in the first
person the next one is the messaging
pillars or the messaging positioning so
you need to write one statement to
summarize what your products can do to
solve that customers challenge for
example the customers challenges all my
data is everywhere I need a tool that
can actually centralize my data and then
the messaging positioning for your
product may be you know connect
integrate your data in a unified central
repository right so you write one
statement to describe why your product
will do to solve that specific customer
challenge then the next category which
is product features maybe you actually
have a specific product feature called
I'm just making this up X III 50 and
this XE 350 is your proprietary and the
platform and have a very easy user
interface that people can configure to
collect all the data now in your product
future category you should describe what
XE is 350 is well you know what is
basically proprietary platforms that you
can configure and to collect all
different formats of data and into your
central database right so you explain
what that technical feature is in the
product future category now you have to
translate that into the user benefit
right so the user benefit will be Oh
easy configuration for data integration
right there so did you see the
difference between the product features
and the user benefit right one is
actually very easy to understand and
your audience can relate to and the
other one is really the technical
benefit is XE 350 right it's a
proprietary platform for a configuration
of your data integration when you
creating the messaging framework you
tend to do a lot of research like what I
did for my clients so after I did tons
of research
and about their products the competitors
products and whatnot I end up you know
realizing that there's lists of keywords
that my clients can use so starting
about last year when I created my
messaging framework I added another
category which is a list of keywords
it's based on my research and I already
did the research anyway I might as well
just documented the list of keywords
from my perspective that can be used for
content creation guess what the common
creators loved it
they take the messaging framework which
is I created now there is a list of
keywords they can use it's just last
word for them right so that was kind of
category I created like a bonus category
if you will in your channel to be
incredibly useful and the people rave
about it so this is the framework any
questions if you do send a question to
me love to answer your question so
here's a quick three takeaways number
one you need to make sure that you have
a template to use if you decided to
create a messaging framework number two
make sure all the elements are related
in a coherent way right don't just
create one category and then the other
category think through in terms of how
each category tied together number three
make sure you review that with your
product team sales and the customers to
get their feedback and not just creating
the stuff in the silos alright so thank
you so much for listening to this
specific episode I hope that you find
the content useful if you do please
subscribe or share with any colleagues
who you think can benefit I really
appreciate that it means a lot to me and
I am going to talk about the past three
of the messaging framework series next
week and that will be about thought
leadership yes you should create a
thought leadership messaging framework
before you draft your thought leadership
comp
we can talk a little bit more see you
next week